docs/plugins/graphql-yoga.md, before:

---
title: GraphQL Yoga Plugin - ElysiaJS
head:
    - - meta
      - property: 'og:title'
        content: GraphQL Yoga Plugin - ElysiaJS

    - - meta
      - name: 'description'
        content: Plugin for Elysia that add support for using GraphQL Yoga on Elysia server. Start by installing the plugin with "bun add graphql graphql-yoga @elysiajs/graphql-yoga".

    - - meta
      - name: 'og:description'
        content: Plugin for Elysia that add support for using GraphQL Yoga on Elysia server. Start by installing the plugin with "bun add graphql graphql-yoga @elysiajs/graphql-yoga".
---

# GraphQL Yoga Plugin
This plugin integrate GraphQL yoga with Elysia

Install with:
```bash
bun add @elysiajs/graphql-yoga
```

Then use it:
```typescript
import { Elysia } from 'elysia'
import { yoga } from '@elysiajs/graphql-yoga'

const app = new Elysia()
    .use(
        yoga({
            typeDefs: /* GraphQL */`
                type Query {
                    hi: String
                }
            `,
            resolvers: {
                Query: {
                    hi: () => 'Hello from Elysia'
                }
            }
        })
    )
    .listen(8080)
```

Accessing `/swagger` would show you a Swagger endpoint with generated endpoint from Elysia server.

optional: you can install custom version of optional peer dependencies as well:
```bash
bun add graphql graphql-yoga
```

## Resolver
Elysia use [Mobius](https://github.com/saltyaom/mobius) to infers type from **typeDefs** field automatically, allowing you to get full type-safety and auto-complete when typing **resolver** types.

## Context
You can add custom context to resolver function by adding **context**
```ts
import { Elysia } from 'elysia'
import { yoga } from '@elysiajs/graphql-yoga'

const app = new Elysia()
    .use(
        yoga({
            typeDefs: /* GraphQL */`
                type Query {
                    hi: String
                }
            `,
            context: {
                name: 'Mobius'
            },
            // If context is a function on this doesn't present
            // for some reason it won't infer context type
            useContext(_) {}
            resolvers: {
                Query: {
                    hi: async (parent, args, context) => context.name
                }
            }
        })
    )
    .listen(8080)
```

## Config
This plugin extends [GraphQL Yoga's createYoga options, please refers to the GraphQL Yoga documentation](https://the-guild.dev/graphql/yoga-server/docs) with inlining `schema` config to root.

Below is a config which is accepted by the plugin

### path
@default `/graphql`

Endpoint to expose GraphQL handler

Commit message:

docs(graphql-yoga): fix endpoint access details typo (Swagger -> GraphQL)

docs/plugins/graphql-yoga.md, after:

---
title: GraphQL Yoga Plugin - ElysiaJS
head:
    - - meta
      - property: 'og:title'
        content: GraphQL Yoga Plugin - ElysiaJS

    - - meta
      - name: 'description'
        content: Plugin for Elysia that add support for using GraphQL Yoga on Elysia server. Start by installing the plugin with "bun add graphql graphql-yoga @elysiajs/graphql-yoga".

    - - meta
      - name: 'og:description'
        content: Plugin for Elysia that add support for using GraphQL Yoga on Elysia server. Start by installing the plugin with "bun add graphql graphql-yoga @elysiajs/graphql-yoga".
---

# GraphQL Yoga Plugin
This plugin integrate GraphQL yoga with Elysia

Install with:
```bash
bun add @elysiajs/graphql-yoga
```

Then use it:
```typescript
import { Elysia } from 'elysia'
import { yoga } from '@elysiajs/graphql-yoga'

const app = new Elysia()
    .use(
        yoga({
            typeDefs: /* GraphQL */`
                type Query {
                    hi: String
                }
            `,
            resolvers: {
                Query: {
                    hi: () => 'Hello from Elysia'
                }
            }
        })
    )
    .listen(8080)
```

Accessing `/graphql` in the browser (GET request) would show you a GraphiQL instance for the GraphQL-enabled Elysia server.

optional: you can install custom version of optional peer dependencies as well:
```bash
bun add graphql graphql-yoga
```

## Resolver
Elysia use [Mobius](https://github.com/saltyaom/mobius) to infers type from **typeDefs** field automatically, allowing you to get full type-safety and auto-complete when typing **resolver** types.

## Context
You can add custom context to resolver function by adding **context**
```ts
import { Elysia } from 'elysia'
import { yoga } from '@elysiajs/graphql-yoga'

const app = new Elysia()
    .use(
        yoga({
            typeDefs: /* GraphQL */`
                type Query {
                    hi: String
                }
            `,
            context: {
                name: 'Mobius'
            },
            // If context is a function on this doesn't present
            // for some reason it won't infer context type
            useContext(_) {}
            resolvers: {
                Query: {
                    hi: async (parent, args, context) => context.name
                }
            }
        })
    )
    .listen(8080)
```

## Config
This plugin extends [GraphQL Yoga's createYoga options, please refers to the GraphQL Yoga documentation](https://the-guild.dev/graphql/yoga-server/docs) with inlining `schema` config to root.

Below is a config which is accepted by the plugin

### path
@default `/graphql`

Endpoint to expose GraphQL handler
