docs/collections/eden.md, before:

# Eden
Eden is an fully type-safe client for Elysia for communicating with Elysia server. 

Weight just 500 bytes according to [bundlephobia](https://bundlephobia.com/package/@elysiajs/eden).

> <small>Eden is in experimental stage, and is subject to change</small>

Inspired by tRPC, using Eden you can fetch API from the Elysia server fully type-safe for both request and response.

First export your existing Elysia server type:
```typescript
// server.ts
import { Elysia, t } from 'elysia'

const app = new Elysia()
    .get('/', () => 'Hi Elysia')
    .get('/id/:id', ({ params: { id } }) => id)
    .post('/mirror', ({ body }) => body, {
        schema: {
            body: t.Object({
                id: t.Number(),
                name: t.String()
            })
        }
    })
    .listen(8080)

export type App = typeof app
```

Then consume Elysia API on client side:
```typescript
export type App = typeof app

// client.ts
import { eden } from '@elysiajs/eden'
import type { App } from './server'

const client = eden<App>('http://localhost:8080')

// return: Hi Elysia (fully type-safe)
client.index.GET().then(console.log)

// return: 1895
client.id.1895.GET().then(console.log)

// return: { id: 1895, name: 'Skadi' }
client.mirror.POST({
    id: 1895,
    name: 'Skadi'
}).then(console.log)
```

Notice that every path is fully type-safe with auto-complete.

## Path
Eden will transform `/` into `.` then can be called with `method` registered (capitalized), for example:
- **/path** -> .path
- **/nested/path** -> .nested.path

For `/`, will become `index` instead.

This is easier for auto-completion for multiple duplicated prefix.

## Camel Case
Eden will try to parse the path with **"-"** into the camel case to match the JavaScript naming convention.

For example: 
sign-in -> signIn

However, if you don't like the magic, you can use the same path name:
```typescript
// ✅ This is fine
client.signIn.POST()

// ✅ This is also fine
client['sign-in'].POST()
```

## Path parameters
With path parameters, any name will be applicable and mapped to path parameters automatically.

- **/id/:id** -> .id.`<anyThing>`
    - eg: .id.hi
    - eg: .id['123']

::: tip
If a path doesn't support path parameter, TypeScript will throw an error.
:::

## Query
You can append query to path with `$query`:
```typescript
client.index.GET({
    $query: {
        name: 'Eden',
        code: 'Gold'
    }
})
```

## Fetch
Eden is a fetch wrapper, you can add any valid fetch's parameters to Eden by passing it to `$fetch`:
```typescript
client.index.POST({
    $fetch: {
        headers: {
            'x-origanization': 'MANTIS'
        }
    }
})
```

Commit message:

:blue_book: doc: add eden installation

docs/collections/eden.md, after:

# Eden
Eden is an fully type-safe client for Elysia for communicating with Elysia server. 

Weight just 500 bytes according to [bundlephobia](https://bundlephobia.com/package/@elysiajs/eden).

> <small>Eden is in experimental stage, and is subject to change</small>

Inspired by tRPC, using Eden you can fetch API from the Elysia server fully type-safe for both request and response.

Start by installing Eden client on your frontend:
```bash
pnpm add @elysiajs/eden
```

First export your existing Elysia server type:
```typescript
// server.ts
import { Elysia, t } from 'elysia'

const app = new Elysia()
    .get('/', () => 'Hi Elysia')
    .get('/id/:id', ({ params: { id } }) => id)
    .post('/mirror', ({ body }) => body, {
        schema: {
            body: t.Object({
                id: t.Number(),
                name: t.String()
            })
        }
    })
    .listen(8080)

export type App = typeof app
```

Then consume Elysia API on client side:
```typescript
export type App = typeof app

// client.ts
import { eden } from '@elysiajs/eden'
import type { App } from './server'

const client = eden<App>('http://localhost:8080')

// return: Hi Elysia (fully type-safe)
client.index.GET().then(console.log)

// return: 1895
client.id.1895.GET().then(console.log)

// return: { id: 1895, name: 'Skadi' }
client.mirror.POST({
    id: 1895,
    name: 'Skadi'
}).then(console.log)
```

Notice that every path is fully type-safe with auto-complete.

## Path
Eden will transform `/` into `.` then can be called with `method` registered (capitalized), for example:
- **/path** -> .path
- **/nested/path** -> .nested.path

For `/`, will become `index` instead.

This is easier for auto-completion for multiple duplicated prefix.

## Camel Case
Eden will try to parse the path with **"-"** into the camel case to match the JavaScript naming convention.

For example: 
sign-in -> signIn

However, if you don't like the magic, you can use the same path name:
```typescript
// ✅ This is fine
client.signIn.POST()

// ✅ This is also fine
client['sign-in'].POST()
```

## Path parameters
With path parameters, any name will be applicable and mapped to path parameters automatically.

- **/id/:id** -> .id.`<anyThing>`
    - eg: .id.hi
    - eg: .id['123']

::: tip
If a path doesn't support path parameter, TypeScript will throw an error.
:::

## Query
You can append query to path with `$query`:
```typescript
client.index.GET({
    $query: {
        name: 'Eden',
        code: 'Gold'
    }
})
```

## Fetch
Eden is a fetch wrapper, you can add any valid fetch's parameters to Eden by passing it to `$fetch`:
```typescript
client.index.POST({
    $fetch: {
        headers: {
            'x-origanization': 'MANTIS'
        }
    }
})
```
